HELLO,
I'M ROGER BINGHAM.
TONIGHT
WHILE YOU SLEEP,
YOU'LL SEE YOUR OWN
PRIVATE MOVIE.
YOU'LL BE THE WRITER, PRODUCER,
DIRECTOR, AUDIENCE,
MAYBE EVEN
THE STAR.
IT'LL SEEM REAL, BUT TOMORROW
IT MAY HAVE MELTED AWAY,
LEAVING ONLY
TANTALIZING TRACES
BECAUSE IT WAS
JUST A DREAM.
BUT WHAT ARE DREAMS?
ARE THEY OMENS
OR PROPHECIES?
CAN THEY GIVE US
INSIGHTS INTO OURSELVES?
CAN WE LEARN HOW
TO USE THEM?
OR ARE THEY RANDOM, MEANINGLESS
IMAGES MADE BY THE BRAIN?
A KIND OF MENTAL FROTH
ON THE SURFACE OF SLEEP.
WHY ARE WE IN THIS
MAGIC THEATER OF THE NIGHT?
AND WHAT HAPPENS INSIDE?
♪ (MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
MOST OF US SLEEP
ABOUT EIGHT HOURS A NIGHT,
AND WE SPEND NEARLY TWO HOURS
OF THAT IN THE LAND OF DREAMS.
IT'S A PLACE WHERE ANYTHING
CAN HAPPEN AND OFTEN DOES.
A PLACE WHERE
WE MEET STRANGE PEOPLE,
HAVE STRANGE CONVERSATIONS,
DO STRANGE THINGS.
AND THEN WITH
THE LIGHT OF DAY,
WE RETURN WITH OUR
TRAVELER'S TALES.
TALES OF JOURNEYS
INSIDE OUR OWN BRAINS.
LET'S BEGIN WITH ONE OF THOSE
TALES, "JESSICA'S DREAM."
SHE DESCRIBES IT TO
PSYCHOLOGIST
DR. EARNEST ROSSI.
IN THE DREAM
I'M ROWING ON THE OCEAN.
I'M GOING ALONG
AND EVERYTHING IS ALL RIGHT,
AND SUDDENLY
THE WATERS PART.
AFTER A WHILE MY BOAT IS
ON THE BOTTOM OF THE OCEAN.
I GET OUT OF THE BOAT
AND LOOK AROUND.
I CAN SEE THE CAVERNS
OF THE OCEAN,
AND FISH ARE JUMPING AROUND
'CAUSE THEY HAVE NO WATER.
THEN SUDDENLY
I HEAR A RUMBLE,
A VERY LARGE RUMBLE.
IT'S FRIGHTENING LIKE
AN EARTHQUAKE ALMOST.
AND THE SOUND GETS
LOUDER AND LOUDER.
I BECOME VERY FRIGHTENED.
I LOOK, AND IN
BOTH DIRECTIONS,
I SEE THESE HUGE WALLS
OF WATER APPROACHING.
I PUT MY HANDS DOWN.
IN MY DREAM I DIE
BEFORE THE WATER CRUSHES ME.
THE RUMBLING SOUND
IS SO GREAT THAT I DIE.
THEN I WAKE UP.
NARRATOR: WE'LL EXPLORE
JESSICA'S DREAM LATER.
BUT FIRST, LET'S GO BACK TO THE
MAN WHOSE THEORIES OF DREAMING
WERE THE CORNERSTONE OF
PSYCHOANALYSIS, SIGMUND FREUD.
DREAMS, FREUD THOUGHT,
WERE A KIND OF SAFETY VALVE
THAT ALLOWED US
TO LET OFF PSYCHIC STEAM
GENERATED BY TABOO DESIRES
IN OUR UNCONSCIOUS MINDS.
THIS EXTRACT FROM A PIECE
CALLED "HUNGERS,"
BY VIDEO ARTIST ED EMSHWILLER,
SEEMS UNCANNILY FREUDIAN.
THESE X-RATED EMOTIONS,
FREUD SAID,
WERE DISGUISED BY
AN INTERNAL CENSOR.
THEN EMERGED,
HIDDEN BEHIND SYMBOLS
AND STRANGE STORIES
DURING DREAMS.
IF WE COULD UNDERSTAND
THE DREAM'S SYMBOLISM,
FREUD BELIEVED,
WE COULD DISCOVER
THE UNDERLYING MEANING.
FREUD'S ONETIME
DISCIPLE CARL JUNG
HAD A DIFFERENT INTERPRETATION
OF DREAM CONTENT.
AGAIN, AN ARTIST'S
IMAGINATION
SEEMS TO ILLUSTRATE
THE ANALYST'S THEORIES.
THIS VIDEO IS
BY DAVID EM.
JUNG SAID WE ALL SHARE AN
ANCIENT COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUS,
POPULATED WITH ARCHETYPAL
FIGURES AND SYMBOLS
THAT WE USE AS THE RAW
MATERIALS FOR OUR DREAMSCAPES.
THE KEY POINT
IS THIS:
BOTH FREUD AND JUNG
BELIEVED THAT DREAMS
WERE MESSAGES SCRIPTED
AND PRODUCED BY THE UNCONSCIOUS.
NARRATOR:
BY THE EARLY 1950'S,
USING THE KIND OF TECHNIQUES
WE'RE SIMULATING HERE,
RESEARCHERS WERE BEGINNING
TO CAST SERIOUS DOUBT
ON PURELY PSYCHOLOGICAL
THEORIES OF DREAMING.
THEY LOOKED INSTEAD FOR
POSSIBLE BIOLOGICAL ROOTS
OF OUR NIGHT LIFE.
VOLUNTEERS AT SLEEP LABS WERE
WIRED UP TO ELECTRODES
CONNECTED TO A MACHINE
THAT MEASURES
EYE AND MUSCLE MOVEMENTS,
HEART RATE,
AND THE ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY
OF THE BRAIN, THE EEG.
THIS IS THE SLEEP
DISORDERS CLINIC
AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELES.
ONE OF A NATIONWIDE
NETWORK OF SLEEP LABS
EXPLORING THE FRONTIERS
OF THE NIGHT.
GOODNIGHT,
ROGER.
GOODNIGHT.
NARRATOR: VOLUNTEERS ARE
CLOSELY OBSERVED AS THEY SLEEP.
CAMERAS IN THE ROOM
RECORD THEIR MOVEMENTS.
AND WHILE THE DREAMER
TAKES OFF
ON HIS NOCTURNAL FLIGHTS
OF THE IMAGINATION,
INFORMATION FROM
THE MONITORING EQUIPMENT
IS RELAYED TO THE PINS
OF THE POLYGRAPH
THAT TRACE OUT
THE SIGNATURE OF SLEEP.
THROUGH THE NIGHT, THAT
SIGNATURE CHANGES DRAMATICALLY.
ON THE LEFT
IS DEEP SLEEP.
THE EYES ARE
ACTUALLY STILL.
THE LITTLE ACTIVITY YOU SEE
IS BEING CONDUCTED
THROUGH THE SKIN
FROM THE EEG.
MUSCLE TONE IS REDUCED,
AND THE EEG SHOWS
CHARACTERISTIC LARGE,
SLOW BRAIN WAVES.
ON THE RIGHT
IS REM SLEEP.
THE EYE MOVEMENTS
ARE RAPID,
HENCE THE TERM "RAPID EYE
MOVEMENT" OR "REM" SLEEP.
AGAIN, MUSCLE ACTIVITY
IS REDUCED,
BUT THE EEG SHOWS RAPID BRAIN
WAVES, LIKE AN AWAKE BRAIN.
MOST OF US AWAKENED
FROM REM SLEEP
REPORT HAVING
VIVID DREAMS.
THE FIRST REM PERIOD BEGINS
AFTER ABOUT 90 MINUTES OF SLEEP.
THEN ALTERNATES
WITH NON-REM SLEEP,
REPEATING AT ROUGHLY THE
SAME 90-MINUTE INTERVALS
THROUGH THE NIGHT.
EACH REM DREAM TIME IS LONGER
THAN THE ONE BEFORE.
IF YOU GO TO SLEEP ABOUT 11:00,
YOUR FIRST REM PERIOD
SHOULD BE
HALF PAST MIDNIGHT.
AND THE BEST TIME TO CATCH
YOUR LONGEST DREAM
WILL BE ABOUT 6:00
OR 6:30 IN THE MORNING.
♪ ("SOMEWHERE OVER
THE RAINBOW" PLAYING) ♪
NARRATOR: TO SCIENTISTS
THERE'S AN IMPORTANT CLUE HERE.
IF WE HAVE SUCH A REGULAR
SLEEP AND DREAM CYCLE,
THEN PRESUMABLY IT'S
A NATURAL, BIOLOGICAL RHYTHM.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT REM SLEEP
DECREASES WITH AGE.
INFANTS SLEEP ABOUT
16 HOURS A DAY.
HALF OF THAT,
EIGHT HOURS, IS REM SLEEP.
EVEN FETUSES IN THE WOMB
HAVE RAPID EYE MOVEMENTS.
♪ ("SOMEWHERE OVER
THE RAINBOW" PLAYING) ♪
NARRATOR: THIS ISN'T
JUST A HUMAN BEHAVIOR.
ALMOST ALL MAMMALS
HAVE REM SLEEP.
ON THE OTHER HAND,
REPTILES DON'T.
SO, IT SEEMS THAT DURING
THE TRANSITION
FROM REPTILES TO MAMMALS
REM SLEEP EVOLVED.
TO A BIOLOGIST, THAT SUGGESTS
THAT REM SLEEP
MUST HAVE POWERFUL
SURVIVAL VALUE.
IT HAS BECOME PART
OF OUR GENETIC LEGACY.
WE ARE IN A SENSE
PROGRAMMED TO DREAM.
BUT WHY AND HOW?
10 YEARS AGO
HARVARD SCIENTISTS
ALLAN HOBSON
AND ROBERT MCCARLEY.
SUGGESTED
A CONTROVERSIAL ANSWER.
IT WAS ALREADY KNOWN THAT CELLS
IN AN AREA OF THE BRAIN STEM
ABOVE THE SPINAL CORD,
ARE ACTIVATED DURING REM SLEEP.
ACCORDING TO HOPSIN
AND MCCARLEY,
THESE CELLS TRANSMIT A FLURRY
OF SIGNALS THAT TRIGGER
RESPONSES IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE BRAIN.
THE CORTEX, TRYING TO MAKE
SENSE OF IT ALL,
THEN TRIES TO WEAVE
SOME KIND OF A STORY
OUT OF THE BOMBARDMENT
OF SENSORY INFORMATION.
THE RESULT
IS A DREAM.
NOTHING MORE THAN A SPIN-OFF
FROM NIGHTSHIFT NEURONS
CAUSING A COMMOTION
IN THE CORTEX.
IT'S THE OPPOSITE OF FREUD'S
AND JUNG'S BELIEF
THAT THE UNCONSCIOUS
HAS A STORY TO TELL
AND THEN FINDS ILLUSTRATIONS
IN THE BRAIN'S IMAGE BANK.
FOR THE SCIENTISTS, IMAGES COME
FIRST AND THE STORY FOLLOWS.
THAT MAY BE WHY
TIME AND SCENES
CAN CHANGE SO SUDDENLY
IN DREAMS.
IT'S SIMPLY
AN ABRUPT SHIFT
FROM ONE BRAIN CIRCUIT
TO ANOTHER.
SOME SLEEP RESEARCHERS,
LIKE UCLA'S NEUROSCIENTIST
JERRY SIEGEL,
NOW BELIEVE THAT THE
HOPSIN-MCCARLEY IDEA
MAY BE SIMPLISTIC.
SIEGEL ARGUES THAT HIGHER
REGIONS OF THE BRAIN,
INCLUDING THE CORTEX,
CAN PLAY AN ACTIVE ROLE
IN CONTROLLING REM SLEEP
AND DREAMING.
REM SLEEP, ESSENTIALLY,
IS AN INTERACTION
OF THIS VERY PRIMITIVE
PART OF THE BRAIN,
WITH THE HIGHER CENTERS.
THE HIGHER CENTERS ARE
INFLUENCING THE BRAIN STEM,
AND THE BRAIN STEM IS
INFLUENCING THE HIGHER CENTERS
IN A VERY
COMPLICATED WAY.
NARRATOR: TO EXPLORE THESE
BASIC BRAIN MECHANISMS,
RECORDINGS ARE MADE OF
THE ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY
OF SINGLE BRAIN CELLS
DURING WAKING AND REM SLEEP.
SOME CELL GROUPS
SWITCH ON DURING REM.
OTHERS SWITCH OFF.
INFORMATION IS RELAYED
BETWEEN CELLS
BY CHEMICALS CALLED
"NEUROTRANSMITTERS."
SOME OF THESE MESSENGER
MOLECULES CAUSE CELLS TO FIRE.
OTHERS INHIBIT THEM.
SO, OUR DIFFERENT SHADES
OF CONSCIOUSNESS,
FROM WAKING TO SLEEP
TO DREAMING, ARE THE RESULT
OF EVER-CHANGING CONCENTRATIONS
OF BRAIN CHEMICALS.
NARRATOR: THIS IS
WHAT CAN HAPPEN
WHEN THE FINELY TUNED MACHINERY
OF SLEEP AND DREAMS
DEVELOPS A GLITCH.
THIS MAN TALKS IN HIS SLEEP
AND WALKS AROUND.
ONE NIGHT SHE WOKE ME
AND I WAS SITTING
AT THE EDGE OF THE BED SAYING,
"KITTY, KITTY, KITTY."
AND SHE WAS SITTING
THERE LAUGHING AT ME.
SHE SAID, "MEL,
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?"
I SAID,
"PETTING THE CAT."
SHE SAID, "WE
HAVEN'T GOT A CAT."
THEN I WOKE UP
AND WENT BACK TO BED.
NARRATOR: THIS TAPE PRODUCED
BY DR. CARLOS SCHENCK
OF THE MINNESOTA REGIONAL
SLEEP DISORDER CENTER
SHOWS PATIENTS WITH
REM SLEEP BEHAVIOR DISORDER.
A PROBLEM THAT'S ONLY RECENTLY
BEEN IDENTIFIED IN HUMANS.
BECAUSE THE CELLS
THAT WOULD NORMALLY
INHIBIT MUSCULAR ACTIVITY
FAIL TO FIRE,
THESE PATIENTS ACT OUT THEIR
DREAMS, SOMETIMES VIOLENTLY.
FORTUNATELY THEY CAN BE
HELPED BY DRUG THERAPY.
IT'S ANOTHER INDICATION
THAT WE'RE BEGINNING
TO UNDERSTAND
THE BIOCHEMISTRY OF SLEEP.
BUT DOES THAT MEAN
NEUROSCIENCE HAS UNLOCKED
THE MYSTERY OF DREAMS
AND THAT WE SHOULD
ABANDON THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
EXPLANATIONS OF FREUD OR JUNG?
JERRY SIEGEL.
I DON'T THINK THE KNOWLEDGE
THAT WE'VE GAINED IN SLEEP
JUSTIFIES DISMISSING
DREAMS AS MEANINGLESS
OR EXPLAINING
THEM IN ANY WAY.
WHAT WE'VE FOUND
IS THE BASIC MECHANISM.
WE'VE ALSO FOUND THAT
CLEARLY THE ENTIRE BRAIN
OR LARGE PARTS OF THE BRAIN
ARE INVOLVED IN DREAMING.
SO WHAT A NEUROSCIENTIST
CAN TELL YOU IS
THAT FOR SURE IT'S
NOT A SIMPLE PROCESS.
NARRATOR: UNTIL RECENTLY
EXPLORING THE UNDERLYING
MECHANISMS OF SLEEP AND
DREAMING IN HUMANS WAS LIMITED.
AS WE'VE SEEN, SLEEP LABS
PROVIDE A GENERAL PICTURE
OF BRAIN
AND MUSCLE ACTIVITY.
FROM PHOTOGRAPHS LIKE THESE
TAKEN EVERY 15 MINUTES
THROUGH THE NIGHT
BY TED SPAGNA,
WE KNOW WHAT NORMAL
SLEEP LOOKS LIKE.
SPANA, WHO PERFECTED
THE TECHNIQUE,
HAS WORKED CLOSELY
WITH SLEEP RESEARCHERS
TO DOCUMENT
OUR NIGHT MOVES.
OF COURSE,
THESE ARE PHOTOGRAPHS
OF THE OUTSIDE
OF SLEEP AND DREAMS.
HOW CAN WE PHOTOGRAPH
THE INSIDE?
NARRATOR: AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE,
RESEARCHERS ARE USING
POSITRON EMISSION TOMOGRAPHY,
THE "PET" SCAN, TO EXPLORE
THE DREAMING HUMAN BRAIN.
IN THIS SIMULATION, VOLUNTEERS
WIRED UP TO A POLYGRAPH
ARE MONITORED
WHILE THEY SLEEP.
WHEN THE CHARACTERISTIC SIGNS
OF REM SLEEP APPEAR,
THE VOLUNTEERS ARE INJECTED
WITH A FORM OF GLUCOSE,
KNOWN AS AN "ISOTOPE."
BRAIN IMAGING LAB DIRECTOR
DR. MONTE BUCHSBAUM.
THE ISOTOPE
IS ACTUALLY INJECTED
WHILE THE SUBJECT
IS DREAMING.
THE BRAIN TAKES UP
THE ISOTOPE AND HOLDS IT
IN THOSE BRAIN CELLS
THAT ARE WORKING HARDEST.
AT THE END OF ABOUT 25
OR 30 MINUTES ALL THE ISOTOPE
HAS BEEN TAKEN UP
FROM THE BLOOD
AND IS NOW SITTING
IN THE BRAIN,
MUCH AS A LATENT IMAGE WOULD
SIT ON A PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM
OR ON YOUR
MAGNETIC TAPE.
WE NOW CAN MOVE THEM
INTO THE "PET" SCAN,
IN ESSENCE DEVELOPING
THE PICTURE,
AND SHOWING THE BRAIN
ACTIVITY DURING THE DREAM.
SO, WE HAVE
FROZEN THE DREAM,
THE MOMENT IN TIME WHEN
THE SUBJECT WAS DREAMING.
THE RED, YELLOW AND WHITE
COLORS SHOW HIGH ACTIVITY.
IN THESE SUBJECTS WHO
ARE DOING A VISUAL TASK,
WE CAN SEE THAT
THEY'RE EXERCISING
THE VISUAL LOBES
OF THE BRAIN.
THIS SUBJECT HAS HIS EYES
CLOSED IN THE DARK.
AND YOU CAN SEE
VERY LITTLE ACTIVITY
IN THESE SAME
VISUAL AREAS.
SURPRISINGLY
DURING THE DREAM,
AN ACTIVE DREAM
WITH VISUAL IMAGERY,
THE VISUAL AREA OF THE
BRAIN IS HARDLY ACTIVE.
WE SEE THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE
BRAIN AND THE FRONTAL LOBES,
THE AREAS WHERE PERSONALITY,
THE ORGANIZATION OF BEHAVIOR,
AND PERHAPS THE IMAGINATION
ARE LOCATED.
THESE ARE THE AREAS
WHICH ARE ACTIVE
AND ARE CREATING THE IDEAS
WE SEE IN THE DREAM.
NARRATOR: BY MATCHING THE "PET"
SCAN IMAGES TO DREAM REPORTS,
THE IRVINE RESEARCHERS
SHOULD BE ABLE TO FIND OUT
IF DIFFERENT
TYPES OF DREAMS
SWITCH ON DIFFERENT AREAS
OF THE BRAIN.
BUT WILL THAT ALLOW THEM
TO DISCOVER THE MEANING
OF THE DREAMS?
PSYCHOLOGIST
RICHARD HAIER.
I THINK THAT DREAM CTENT
WILL HAVE MEANING
UNIQUE TO THE INDIVIDUAL
BEYOND THE WAY
MOLECULES TWIST
OR SYNAPSES MOVE.
A LOT OF THESE
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA
LIKE DREAMS,
WHILE THEY MAY HAVE
A BIOLOGICAL BASIS,
ALSO HAVE MEANING THAT CAN BE
DISCUSSED AND THOUGHT ABOUT
INDEPENDENT OF
THE BIOLOGICAL BASIS.
THAT'S WHAT FREUD DID.
THAT'S WHAT
PSYCHOANALYSIS DOES,
AND PSYCHOANALYSIS
IS VERY GOOD AT THAT.
WILL "PET" SCANNING
LEAD TO A BETTER
INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS
THAN A PSYCHOANALYST CAN DO?
I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK THAT IF FREUD
WERE ALIVE TODAY,
HE'D BE HERE STUDYING
DREAMING WITH "PET" SCANNING
AND BRINGING
THE TWO TOGETHER.
(PROJECTOR CLICKING)
NARRATOR: EVERY DAY OUR
SENSES ARE BOMBARDED
BY NEW INFORMATION THAT OUR
BRAIN'S HAVE TO PROCESS.
SOME SCIENTISTS HAVE SUGGESTED
THAT LIKE AN OFF-LINE COMPUTER,
ONE THAT'S DISENGAGED
FROM THE EXTERNAL WORLD,
OUR SLEEPING BRAIN'S
ARE CONSTANTLY
PROCESSING NEW IMAGES,
COMPARING THEM
WITH OLD MEMORIES,
AND UPDATING
THEIR PROGRAMS.
MOST OF THE TIME WE'RE NOT
AWARE OF THIS MAINTENANCE WORK.
BUT OCCASIONALLY GLIMPSES
OF THE NEW PROGRAMS
BEING RUN BY THE BRAIN'S
NIGHT SHIFT SURFACE.
AND THOSE GLIMPSES
BECOME DREAMS.
THAT'S JUST ONE
OF THE SPECULATIONS
ABOUT WHY WE HAVE
REM SLEEP AND DREAMS.
MANY OF THE THEORIES
USE COMPUTER ANALOGIES.
DURING REM SLEEP,
THE BRAIN IS STILL ACTIVE,
BUT IT RECEIVES NO INPUT
FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
IN THE SAME WAY,
WHEN A COMPUTER RUNS
AND AMENDS EXISTING PROGRAMS,
IT'S TAKEN OFF-LINE.
SOME SLEEP THEORISTS
HAVE SUGGESTED
THAT WITHOUT OUR OFF-LINE
NIGHTSHIFT CAPABILITIES,
OUR BRAINS WOULD
HAVE BECOME OVERLOADED
TRYING TO HANDLE THE DAILY
TRAFFIC OF SENSORY INFORMATION.
REM SLEEP MAY BE
MOTHER NATURE'S ECONOMICAL WAY
OF KEEPING US ON TOP OF THINGS
WITHOUT DRIVING US CRAZY.
IT'S AN INTRIGUING IDEA,
BUT IS THERE ANY REAL EVIDENCE
THAT WE SPEND PART OF THE NIGHT
PROCESSING NEW DATA?
HOW DO WE PROVE THAT OUR
DAILY SENSORY EXPERIENCE
FINDS ITS WAY
INTO OUR DREAMS?
THAT'S WHAT RESEARCHERS HOWARD
ROFFWARG AND JOHN HERMANN
TRIED TO DO,
USING THESE.
IT'S A SIMPLE EXPERIMENT,
BUT INGENIOUS.
YOU SEE, THESE ARE ORDINARY
WELDER'S GOGGLES,
BUT THEY HAVE SPECIAL FILTERS
THAT LET ONLY RED LIGHT IN.
SO, IT'S REALLY LIKE
LOOKING AT THE WORLD
THROUGH
ROSE-TINTED GOGGLES.
VOLUNTEERS WORE THESE GOGGLES
FOR ABOUT A WEEK.
AT NIGHT THEY WERE MONITORED
IN A SLEEP LAB.
AND SURE ENOUGH, WHEN THEY
WERE AWAKENED FROM REM SLEEP,
IN THEIR DREAMS
THEY SAW RED.
SO, IT SEEMS THAT
OUR DAILY EXPERIENCE
CAN BE REPLAYED IN
THE THEATER OF THE NIGHT.
BUT WHY?
NOBLE PRIZE WINNER
FRANCIS CRICK HAS SUGGESTED
DREAMS ARE A KIND OF OVERNIGHT
CLEANING UP OPERATION.
IN REM SLEEP, HE ARGUES,
THE BRAIN SORTS THROUGH
ITS LATEST SENSORY INPUTS
AND DUMPS ANYTHING THAT MIGHT
BECOME DTRACTING OR EVEN
DAMAGING IF IT WAS PERMANENTLY
STORED IN THE FILING SYSTEM
OF OUR MEMORIES.
IT'S A BIT LIKE NIGHTLY
DEBUGGING OF A COMPUTER PROGRAM
TO PREVENT
FUTURE BREAKDOWNS.
OTHER SCIENTISTS HAVE ARGUED
THAT REM SLEEP
IS A SORT OF PILOT LIGHT
FOR THE BRAIN.
WITHOUT IT, WE MIGHT LAPSE INTO
TERMINAL LOSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS.
INSTEAD, IT PERIODICALLY
FIRES UP THE BRAIN CIRCUITS
IN PREPARATION FOR
FULL WAKING ACTIVITY.
BUT PERHAPS
THE SPECULATION ABOUT DREAMS
THAT RESONATES BEST
WITH OUR INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCES
IS THAT THEY'RE A KIND
OF LEARNING PROCESS,
A REHEARSAL FOR LIFE.
MAYBE IN DREAMS
WE'RE PROBLEM SOLVING.
LET'S GO BACK
TO JESSICA'S DREAM.
IN MY DREAM I DIE
BEFORE THE WATER CRUSHES ME.
THE RUMBLING SOUND
IS SO GREAT THAT I DIE.
AND THEN I WAKE UP.
NARRATOR: COULD THIS
BE THE PRODUCT OF CELLS
FIRING RANDOMLY
IN THE BRAIN STEM?
DID THEY SOMEHOW CONJURE UP
THE MEMORY OF A BOAT RIDE?
AND DID HER BRAIN,
TRYING TO MAKE SENSE OF IT,
THEN INVENT THE REST
OF THE PLOT?
OR IS THIS A MESSAGE
FROM HER UNCONSCIOUS?
SHE'S HAD A DREAM
LIKE THIS SEVERAL TIMES
OVER THE PAST
FIVE YEARS.
HOW AND WHY
DOES IT RECUR?
SCIENTISTS SPECULATE THAT
THE BIOCHEMICAL MECHANISMS
OF PERMANENT
MEMORY STORAGE
ARE SWITCHED OFF
DURING REM SLEEP,
SO, VERY
LITTLE STICKS.
THAT'S WHY WE FORGET
MOST DREAMS SO EASILY.
BUT WHEN WE WAKE UP
DURING A DREAM,
OUR BRAIN CHEMISTRY CHANGES
AND THE IMAGES ARE STORED
IN THE ATTIC
OF OUR MEMORIES.
BUT WHAT SHOULD WE DO
WITH OUR DREAMS?
LEAVE THEM THERE
LIKE UNWANTED GIFTS,
OR TAKE THEM DOWN,
AND TRY TO UNDERSTAND THEM?
DR. ROSSI.
YOU TUNE INTO
YOUR DREAMS.
YOU START
RECORDING THEM.
YOU START WONDERING
ABOUT THEM,
AND SEE IF YOU DO NOT FIND
PATTERNS AND MEANINGFULNESS.
MOST PEOPLE WHO DO
TAKE THE TASK SERIOUSLY
DO FIND THOSE PATTERNS.
THE FASCINATING THING IS
THAT THE MEANING IS EVOLVING.
IT'S CHANGING AS WE
OURSELVES ARE CHANGING.
BOTH FREUD AND JUNG
HAVE TREMENDOUS GENIUS,
A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF WISDOM.
HOWEVER, WE CAN'T
SLAVISHLY FOLLOW THEM.
OUR GENERATION AND
CONSCIOUSNESS ARE DIFFERENT.
AND WE HAVE TO GO BACK
TO THE SOURCE WITHIN OURSELVES.
SO THAT WOULD BE
THE IMPORTANT MESSAGE
I'D LIKE TO
COMMUNICATE.
WE CAN LEARN FROM
MODELS OF THE PAST,
BUT IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS,
WHEN I HAVE THIS DREAM,
IT'S MY DREAM,
AND I HAVE TO REFLECT UPON IT
TO SEE WHAT MEANING
IS BEING CREATED.
NARRATOR:
SO WHAT IS THE MEANING
OF JESSICA'S DREAM
OR YOURS OR MINE?
ACCORDING TO DR. ROSSI
IT'S NOT FIXED.
THROUGH DIALOGUES
WITH OUR DREAMS,
WE CAN CONTINUALLY
CREATE NEW MEANING.
(PROJECTOR CLICKING)
NARRATOR: AT THE BEGINNING
OF THIS PROGRAM
I COMPARED US TO PRODUCERS,
DIRECTORS, WRITERS, ACTORS,
AND AUDIENCES IN
THE THEATER OF THE NIGHT.
TO A PSYCHOANALYST, MAYBE
THAT'S JUST ANOTHER WAY
OF SAYING
"OUR UNCONSCIOUS."
TO MANY NEUROSCIENTISTS
BRAINS ARE US.
OUR NIGHT THEATER
IS A PRODUCTION
OF OUR RESIDENT COMPANY
OF BRAIN CELLS.
SO HOW GOOD
WAS THE ANALOGY?
SURELY IF WE ARE
DREAM DIRECTORS,
WE CAN CHANGE A SCENE.
IF WE ARE WRITERS,
WE CAN CHANGE THE SCRIPT.
THAT'S EXACTLY THE NOTION
THAT SOME SLEEP RESEARCHERS
HAVE NOW BEGUN EXPLORING.
THEY ARGUE THAT
WE CAN LEARN
A TECHNIQUE CALLED
"LUCID DREAMING."
DURING A LUCID DREAM WE ARE
AWARE THAT WE ARE DREAMING,
AND WE MAY BE ABLE TO CHANGE
THE DREAM AS IT UNFOLDS.
COULD THAT BE
A VALUABLE SKILL?
THERE IS GROWING EVIDENCE
THAT OUR MENTAL ATTITUDES
CAN AFFECT
OUR BODILY WELL-BEING
VIA THE IMMUNE SYSTEM.
IS IT POSSIBLE
THAT SIMILAR MECHANISMS
MIGHT OPERATE
AS WE SLEEP?
COULD WE LEARN
TO PRODUCE HEALING IMAGES
AND CONTROL
THE CHEMISTRY OF DREAMS?
OR IS THAT
JUST A DREAM?
OUR JOURNEY
THROUGH THE LANDSCAPES
OF THE NIGHT
IS JUST BEGINNING.
SCIENTISTS HAVE STARTED
TO MAP THE TERRAIN,
LOOKING FOR AREAS
IN OUR BRAIN
THAT MAY PRODUCE THESE
PRIVATE LATE SHOWS.
BUT DREAMS
REMAIN AN ENIGMA.
THEY'RE AS MUCH
POETRY AS PHYSIOLOGY.
IN FACT, A POET MAY
HAVE PUT IT THE BEST.
"WE ARE SUCH STUFF
AS DREAMS ARE MADE ON,"
"AND OUR LITTLE LIFE
IS ROUNDED WITH A SLEEP."